# 2021-02-03: Successful 18C XE Installation

## Overview

I am starting to get a handle on designing the installation of 18C XE. This is
a summary of design decisions made to bring rationality to the overall design.

# Table of Contents

* [Issues Resolved:](#issues-resolved)
* [Other Design Issues](#other-design-issues)
  * [YAMLLINT Configuration Setting](#yamllint-configuration-setting)
  * [Switch to Python2](#switch-to-python2)
    * [Remove Python Setting](#remove-python-setting)
    * [Check for Working Version of PIP2](#check-for-working-version-of-pip2)
  * [Validate XE Installation on OL7](#validate-xe-installation-on-ol7)
  * [Separate Script for OL7](#separate-script-for-ol7)
  * [Restrict Ansible 2.10 to OL 8](#restrict-ansible-210-to-ol-8)
  * [XE Specific Password](#xe-specific-password)

# Issues Resolved:

- #1 "XE: RPM Dependency - Cannot Use 19C Preinstall RPM"
- #3 "XE: YUM fails for OL7"
- #4 "XE: load passwords failed due to censored"
- #6 "XE: PIP fails to install PEXPECT"
- #7 "XE: Unable to find 18C XE RPM"
- #8 "XE: Configuration Loops Indefinitely"
- #9 "XE: Invalid Protocols for Firewall Rules"

# Other Design Issues

## YAMLLINT Configuration Setting

Added `.yamllint` for my preferred yamllint settings. This is done through the
script, `ansible-check.sh`, from the
[local_utilities](https://github.com/dfhawthorne/local_utilities) GIT
repository.

This was done because I had forgotten how I have configured `yamllint` on other
systems. It has the effect of exposing the `yamllint` configuration settings in
the current project when using the `ansible-check.sh` utility.

## Switch to Python2

I had great difficulties running Ansible 2.10 scripts on Oracle Linux 7 (OL7)
servers. The solution was to install Ansible 2.9 and use Python2 on OL7 servers.

### Remove Python Setting
    
Removed `python_interpreter` from Ansible configuration file, `ansible.cfg`.
This allows me to specify the python interpreter per host by setting the
variable, `ansible_python_interpreter`.

This is needed because Oracle Linux 7 requires Python2 to work currently for
Ansible scripts.

### Check for Working Version of PIP2

Because of
"[pip install on Python 2 fails with SyntaxError: sys.stderr.write(f"ERROR: {exc}") #9500](https://github.com/pypa/pip/issues/9500)",
I need to install a downgraded version of `pip2`.

I created a utility, called `files/validate_pip2.sh`, which detects the
existence of `pip2`, and whether that command is error-free. If `pip2` does
not exist, or `pip2` fails, the script fails. In that case, the downgraded
`pip2` is installed.

## Validate XE Installation on OL7

I restrict the installation of the XE software onto Oracle Linux 7 (OL7).

## Separate Script for OL7

Separated Oracle Linux 7 tasks into a separate file, `ol7_tasks.yml`. This
allows operating specific tasks to be separated out.

## Restrict Ansible 2.10 to OL 8

I made the decision to restrict the use of Ansible 2.10 to Oracle Linux 8 (OL8).

## XE Specific Password

Because the XE password cannot include special characters, I created a special
password variable, `xe_password`, which was added to `passwords/oracle.yml`.

