# 2023-12-08: Installation of RDBMS Updated

## Summary

The task list, `install_oracle_rdbms.yml`, has been updated for the orchestration workflow.

## Table of Contents

* [Driver Playbook for DB Installation](#driver-playbook-for-db-installation)
  * [Propagate host name to /etc/hosts](#propagate-host-name-to-etchosts)
  * [Load Passwords](#load-passwords)
  * [Extra Modules](#extra-modules)
  * [Oracle DB Listener Port](#oracle-db-listener-port)
  * [Version of Oracle RDBMS](#version-of-oracle-rdbms)
  * [Extra Scripts for DB and Listener Restart, and DB Repair](#extra-scripts-for-db-and-listener-restart,-and-db-repair)
  * [BASH Profile Update for DB Installation](#bash-profile-update-for-db-installation)
* [Start of DB Instance](#start-of-db-instance)

## Driver Playbook for DB Installation

Multiple changes to the playbook for Oracle DB installation, `install_rdbms.yml` to accommodate the orchestration workflow.

### Propagate host name to /etc/hosts

The local IP4 address, `127.0.0.1`, is added to the `/etc/hosts` file as local alias for the host name (both short and FQDN). This customises the copy of the gold image.

### Load Passwords

The passwords are now loaded from the `orchestration` repository. There is a guard condition to prevent double loading 

### Extra Modules

The module, `python3-pip`, is installed so that `cx_Oracle` is installed. This is needed for the database restart script which is best done in python.

### Oracle DB Listener Port

The Oracle DB Listener Port is no longer hard-coded, but specified in the variable, `oracle_listener_port`.

### Version of Oracle RDBMS

The version of Oracle RDBMS is no longer determined by the group name, but rather through a variable, ``.

### Extra Scripts for DB and Listener Restart, and DB Repair

There are three (3) groups of extra scripts for fixing the Oracle DB environment:

1. `repair_rdbms.sh` and `repair_rdbms.sql` are described in [2023_11_22.md](2023_11_22.md).
1. `restart_listener.sh` is described in [2023_12_06.md](2023_12_06.md).
1. `start_db_inst.py` starts both the Oracle listener and DB instance

Update of Oracle Listener is done through Ansible to match the port chosen. This change requires a listener restart.

### BASH Profile Update for DB Installation

`.bash_profile` is updated to set the login environment of the `oracle` user to reflect the latest DB installation.

## Start of DB Instance

The script, `start_db_inst.py`, was updated to:

* Remove restricted sessions
* Increase granularity of error handling
