# 2024-01-01: Refactor DB Patching to Use PSU

## Summary

I need to update the workflow to apply a specific PSU to the DB.

## Table of Contents

* [Consideration for Combo Patchsets](#consideration-for-combo-patchsets)
* [Removal of Checks for ORACLE_HOME and OPATCH_BIN](#removal-of-checks-for-oracle_home-and-opatch_bin)
* [Apply Patch Script](#apply-patch-script)
* [Redistribution of Variables](#redistribution-of-variables)

## Consideration for Combo Patchsets

Earlier PSUs were available as combo patchsets that included both the RDBMS and OJVM patchsets. Thus three (3)
patch IDs were required. I created three (3) corresponding variables:

1. `combo_patch_id` (Optional)
1. `rdbms_patch_id` (Required)
1. `ojvm_patch_id` (Required)

These variable names succiently describe their contents. No alternatives were considered.

If the `combo_patch_id` is defined, then a combo patchset is being applied. Thus only one (1) patch directory
is required, otherwise two (2) separate patch directories are required.

The other two (2) variables are always required because the RDBMS and OJVM patchsets are always applied separately.

These variables are set in the `vars/PSU{{ DB_PSU }}.yml` file. Currently, the valid values for `DB_PSU` are:

* 19.9
* 19.21

Corresponding to each of these patch ID variables, there a variable with the name of the directory where the
patch is extracted (these variables replace `patch_directory`):

1. `combo_patch_directory`
1. `rdbms_patch_directory`
1. `ojvm_patch_directory`

## Removal of Checks for ORACLE_HOME and OPATCH_BIN

I have removed the `ANSIBLE.BUILTIN.STAT` tasks to check for the existence of `oracle_home` and `opatch_bin`
paths along with the corresponding when conditionals. These checks were originally added to allow playbooks to
pass checks.

## Apply Patch Script

The hard coding of patch IDs in `templates/apply_rdbms_patches.sh.j2` has been removed.

Since this script now has to accommodate both combo and individual pathsets, I had to add Jinja2 conditionals
for the presence or absence of a combo patchset ID.

Each `pushd` is now matched by a `popd`. This is just for completeness.

The `datapatch` command is now executed in the `OPatch` directory.

## Redistribution of Variables

The patch variables are now moved into individual variable files which are named after the PSU.
