# 2024-01-12: Install Sample Schemas

## Summary

The installation of Oracle DB Schemas to GoldenGate DBs is now include the workflow.

## Table of Contents

* [Related Issues](#related-issues)
* [Install Sample Schemas](#install-sample-schemas)
  * [Placement](#placement)
  * [Software Source](#software-source)
  * [Variable Names](#variable-names)
    * [Name of Source Archive](#name-of-source-archive)
    * [Name of Sample Directory](#name-of-sample-directory)
  * [Passwords](#passwords)
  * [Installation Script](#installation-script)
* [Other Enhancements](#other-enhancements)
  * [Listener Configuration](#listener-configuration)
  * [Removal of Checks for Oracle Home Existence](#removal-of-checks-for-oracle-home-existence)
  * [Start of Database Instance](#start-of-database-instance)

## Related Issues

* #25 "Install Sample Schemas enhancement"

## Install Sample Schemas

### Placement

The tasks to install DB sample schemas are packaged in the `install_sample_schemas.yml` file. This file is included in the `install_oracle_on_goldengate.yml` playbook.

Instead of having a variable to decide whether to install the Oracle DB schemas, the inclusion of tasks is explicitly specified in the playbook.

### Software Source

The releases are downloaded from [GitHub](https://github.com/oracle-samples/db-sample-schemas/releases) into `Software/oracle_sample_schemas` on my NFS server.

* `db-sample-schemas-19.2.tar.gz`
* `db-sample-schemas-21.1.tar.gz`
* `db-sample-schemas-23.2.tar.gz`

### Variable Names

#### Name of Source Archive

The name of the source archive for Oracle DB Sample Schemas is set to `db_sample_source`. The alternative name was `sample_source`. The `db_` prefix was added to this name is order to distinguish it from any other of samples I may use in an orchestration workflow.

#### Name of Sample Directory

The name of the source archive for Oracle DB Sample Schemas is set to `db_sample_dir`. The alternative name was `sample_dir`. The `db_` prefix was added to this name is order to distinguish it from any other of samples I may use in an orchestration workflow.

### Passwords

The variables for passwords are:

* `pw_system` - this matches that used in response file for the `system` user.
* `pw_sys` - this matches that used in response file for the `sys` user.
* `pw_all` - if defined, set the passwords for all users (including `sys` and `system`).

### Installation Script

The Oracle DB Schemas are installed through the script, `install_db_sample_schemas.sh`, which is generated through the template `templates/install_db_sample_schemas.sh.j2`. The script checks for the existence of the six (6) schemas for idempotence.

## Other Enhancements

### Listener Configuration

The configuration of the Oracle Listener End-Point is now moved to before restarting the database, and opening the pluggable databases. The original position was after the database repair step.

### Removal of Checks for Oracle Home Existence

All checks for the existence of the Oracle Home have now been removed.

### Start of Database Instance

The script, `start_db_inst.py.j2`, now checks for pluggable databases in `MIGRATE` state. If found, close and open the pluggable databases.
